It was a project where we had to deliver an IT program to one of our clients. We missed a crucial deadline that set the deliverable date back a week. Our team had been running smoothly, and I was in charge of ensuring that all of our subcontractors were on board with the final product. I mistakenly assumed that we had buy-in from the client. But late in the game, I found out they actually wanted to talk about some of the final features of the IT program we were developing.
Play video starting at :3:54 and follow transcript3:54
I knew that the project's success depending on having everyone on board with the deliverable. I told my team we'd have to hit the pause button while I talked with the client.
Play video starting at :4:4 and follow transcript4:04
Once the client was good with our direction, we could then move ahead with the final deliverable.
Play video starting at :4:9 and follow transcript4:09
It turned out that this action was unnecessary. The client was, in fact, satisfied with what we were building, they just weren't 100% sure we were building what they wanted. When I met with them, they were not upset, but they also were careful to emphasize that they needed to be included in such conversations ahead of time. Our final deliverable was delayed by a week because of this communication breakdown, but I learned a key lesson about maintaining transparent communications with a client.
Play video starting at :4:39 and follow transcript4:39
>> How so? Can you elaborate on that point?
Play video starting at :4:42 and follow transcript4:42
>> Absolutely, this experience helped me understand how important timely and regular communication with a client is. My team and our subcontractors, we're all on the same page. And we were building what the client wanted, but I had assumed that the client knew that. And like someone who might order a car, was just waiting for the deliverable. I learned that I had to think of the client as part of the team, not as a customer waiting for a finished product. I learned that just as I was in constant communication with my team and subcontractors, I needed to be in constant communication with the client, especially as it relates to deliverables. I can't assume that everyone is on board with what's been decided. And even if that's the case, it's important that I go the extra mile to ensure that all participants are kept abreast of the process.
Play video starting at :5:32 and follow transcript5:32
>> Can you follow the story? I want you to notice how John sets the stage as he opens. He answers the interviewer's question in his first sentence. It was a time when his team missed a crucial deadline. This is a good choice because it previews for the interviewer the experience that John will narrate. It also communicates that John considers missing a crucial deadline to be a failure. That's an important subtext to the story.
Play video starting at :6:1 and follow transcript6:01
What is the target in John's story format?
Play video starting at :6:4 and follow transcript6:04
I think the target is implied in the story. John wanted to make sure that the client got the product that they wanted. What is the action? John uses the language, hit the pause button, to describe the action he had his team take.
Play video starting at :6:20 and follow transcript6:20
This is an English idiom. Like most idioms it conveys a picture. Sometimes you'll hear, push the pause button, which means the same thing. It means to stop an action temporarily.
Play video starting at :6:32 and follow transcript6:32
So John had his team stop what they were doing until he made sure the client was on board. That's another English idiom. If you say everyone was on board with the decision, that means everyone agrees with the decision. The picture here is as if everyone were all on board the same train, going to the same destination.
Play video starting at :6:55 and follow transcript6:55
How would you describe the result? Well, the result was John made a mistake in having his team hit the pause button, but what's important is the lesson he took from the experience. Everyone makes mistakes, but not everyone learns from their mistakes. In telling this story, John indicates that he's not the kind of manager to make the same mistake twice. He takes away an insight that is valuable to him as a professional, and valuable to any organization he would interview with. Remember, you tell stories so your interviewer can see you in action. Interviewers ask these questions because they feel how you behaved in the past is the best barometer they have for how you behave in the future. So craft your stories carefully. Be honest, but remember, you're telling your story to make a sale. 