>> I pride myself on being able to get things done on time within budget and most importantly in such a way that the client is satisfied. And those are my three priorities. Managing time, budgeting resources and ensuring client satisfaction. If I had to pick one of those to put first, it would be customer service. I've been in customer service since I started working. I think my ability to organize and prioritize tasks, my budgeting skills, they all focus on a positive relationship with the client. And that focus has allowed me to take on more and more responsibility at every company I've worked for. Including where I work today.
Play video starting at :2:54 and follow transcript2:54
I currently manage two multi-million dollar projects with a wide range of deliverables. Of course, I make sure my teams understand their tasks, and they're clear on their responsibilities. But I stress to them that our number one priority is the client. I make sure we communicate status, listen to client feedback and stay on track with client expectations. And this is where I think I can help United Health. I get really excited when I think about the impact healthcare can have on people. My ability to set high performance goals and fulfill them, combined with my excellent analytical skills I bring to the table can help you deliver the solutions that you're looking for. Now I do realize you're asking for five plus years of experience and I'm at the low end of that scale, but I've had the benefit of learning from some really excellent managers. I look forward to learning more from a first class team that I'm sure you have at United Health.
Play video starting at :3:50 and follow transcript3:50
Perhaps you could tell me more about the product managers and partner teams I'd be working with.
Play video starting at :3:56 and follow transcript3:56
>> Thank you John. Now let's see how John organized his answer. Notice he begins his answer by pointing to his three main strengths.
Play video starting at :4:6 and follow transcript4:06
>> I pride myself on being able to get things done on time, within budget, and most importantly, in such a way that the client is satisfied. And those are my three priorities. Managing time, budgeting resources, and ensuring client satisfaction. John then steers his short introduction to a clear and concise statement, mentioning how his key strengths benefit the most important asset at United Health, the customer.
Play video starting at :4:34 and follow transcript4:34
If I had to pick one of those to put first, it would be customer service. I've been in customer service since I started working. I think my ability to organize and prioritize tasks, my budgeting skills, they all focus on a positive relationship with the client.
Play video starting at :4:51 and follow transcript4:51
>> Now watch the next step in John's response. He offers concrete evidence to demonstrate the competencies he mentioned in the beginning of his answer. >> And that focus has allowed me to take on more and more responsibility at every company I've worked for, including where I work today. I currently manage two multi-million dollar projects with a wide range of deliverables. Of course, I make sure my teams understand their tasks and they're clear on their responsibilities. But I stress to them that our number one priority is the client. I make sure we communicate status, listen to client feedback, and stay on track with client expectations.
Play video starting at :5:31 and follow transcript5:31
Here John is marketing his benefits to the company. He is again selling his commitment to the priorities of the prospective employer. He continues that in his next statement. >> And this is where I think I can help United Health. I get really excited when I think about the impact health care can have on people. My ability to set high performance goals and fulfill them, combined with my excellent analytical skills I bring to the table, can help you deliver the solutions you're looking for. >> John's next sentence shows that he anticipates objections that the perspective employer may have, but it also shows his desire to grow within the position and the company.
Play video starting at :6:12 and follow transcript6:12
>> Now, I do realize you're asking for five plus years of experience, and I'm at the low end of that scale. But I've had the benefit of learning from some really excellent managers. I look forward to learning more from a first class team that I'm sure you have at United Health. >> Now watch how John closes his response.
Play video starting at :6:31 and follow transcript6:31
Perhaps, you could tell me more about the product managers, and partner teams I'd be working with? >> By asking a question, John gives himself an opportunity to relax for a moment. But, more importantly, he asked a question that allows him to interview the interviewer. Remember, interviews go both ways. >> You are interviewing the organization as well as being interviewed for the position.
Play video starting at :6:56 and follow transcript6:56
You have seen the language John chooses to guide his answer and, in a way, the interview. Now, let's look at the way John uses the English tense system to support his response.
Play video starting at :7:8 and follow transcript7:08
The English tense system represents different ways of thinking about an action in time.
Play video starting at :7:14 and follow transcript7:14
John consistently uses the present tense in his answer. The simple present, for example, my passion is client service and I think I have excellent analytical skills.
Play video starting at :7:26 and follow transcript7:26
In English, you use the simple present to express facts and general truth. John's use of the simple present conveys his confidence in himself and his strength.
Play video starting at :7:37 and follow transcript7:37
John also uses the present perfect when he says, I've been in customer service since I started working and that focus has allowed me to take on more and more responsibility at every company I've worked for.
Play video starting at :7:51 and follow transcript7:51
You can see where John started working. Here is how he's taking on more and more responsibility. And here's John today. He's using the present perfect to express action over a period of time, starting in the past and continuing into the present. Then John also uses present progressive towards the end of his answer when he says, you are asking for five plus years of experience. He could've said your job posting asks for a fact. He could've said you've asked for the request considered as extending over a period of time. But he uses you're asking for, to emphasize what the company is doing right now. It brings the company's job search into focus, which helps him engage the interviewer.

>> I think my experience in project management, my ability to make timely data-driven decisions and my ability to communicate effectively to both partners and to leadership is what sets me apart as a candidate. My MBA from the Smith School focused on financial services and project managing. So these are two areas that I've been interested in for some time, starting with my internship in Baltimore. And that was my first taste of project management in both finance and IT, and I loved it. From there, I've supported development and implementation of financial services and IT projects at each company I've worked for. Which led me to where I'm at now, managing a couple of complex multi-million dollar projects. Second, I understand that UnitedHealth is looking for someone who has experience making data-driven decisions and this is something that I'm deeply engaged with in my current position. Basically, I'm responsible for analyzing data from our partners and then determining what our priorities are based on this information. Last month, I actually had to refocus one of our strategies on a deliverable due to some new information that could have put the company at some risk. And that was a real success for us. Lastly, my skills as a communicator match UnitedHealth's need for someone who can communicate with senior leadership. Over my five years in the industry, I've strived to improve my communication ability because I think this is a key component of working in a team. When I'm reporting information to my supervisors and to the board, I'm careful to provide clear and concise information. I also try to give an update on the status of client satisfaction and progress on our deliverables. At the same time, I'm candid about any challenges we might be facing. And I always have a list of solutions ready to go to meet those issues. These are the qualifications I bring to the table and it's how I see myself helping UnitedHealth's goal of helping people lead healthier lives as well as drive innovation.
Play video starting at :4:19 and follow transcript4:19
>> Thank you, John. Let's examine the strategy John uses to answer this question. He starts by speaking directly to the needs of UnitedHealth financial services and project management and expressing his passion for the field and his personal drive for success.
Play video starting at :4:36 and follow transcript4:36
He speaks directly to the requirement for the experience in making data-driven decisions and explains that his current job requires that same skill set. This not only highlights his understanding of the position and it's requirements, but also shows his due diligence in preparing for the job interview. He adds a nice touch in pointing how a recent decision allowed his current company to sidestep a difficulty. In his final point, he emphasizes his understanding of communication competencies and how he sees himself as fit to meet those responsibilities.
Play video starting at :5:14 and follow transcript5:14
Let's look next at John's language and pragmatics.
Play video starting at :5:18 and follow transcript5:18
John is dressed very professionally and appears comfortable. Surely he may be nervous but as he's well prepared, he appears to be natural and relaxed. His body posture is open. Take a closer look. His arms are not crossed. He's not nervously playing with his fingers or hands, instead he sits comfortably yet professionally and attentive in his chair. He also uses natural gestures. All gestures are often linked to culture. They're good to use. You can use your hands to emphasize a point, for example.
Play video starting at :5:55 and follow transcript5:55
Generally, the right hand is usually used to signify that you're giving out information, while left-hand gestures indicate your readiness to receive information. Also, open palms show openness and honesty, so try to not to interlock and clench your fingers. Overall, however, try to keep your actions smooth and natural. Don't overdo a forced hand gesture, or risk distracting your interviewer. Only use hand gestures you're comfortable with and that add to your point.
Play video starting at :6:29 and follow transcript6:29
Then, let's take a look at the language John uses. You may have noticed that John uses several collocations. Let's list them here.
Play video starting at :6:39 and follow transcript6:39
What sets you apart as a candidate, what makes you unique. For John, it was his unique combination of skills and experience.
Play video starting at :6:47 and follow transcript6:47
Your first taste of something, the first time you experience something. For John, it was the first time he experienced managing a project,
Play video starting at :6:57 and follow transcript6:57
to be deeply engaged with something. To be involved with something, very active in doing something. For John, he is deeply engages in his current position data-driven decision making. To be candid about something, to be open, to speak honestly about something. John says he's candid about challenges his company faces.
Play video starting at :7:19 and follow transcript7:19
To bring something to the table, to provide something that will be a benefit. John talks about the qualification he brings to the table meaning what he has to offer UnitedHealth. A first taste and to bring something to the table are idioms, meaning figures of speech that are not taken literally. They're used more in spoken than in written or formal English. You may be asking whether it is okay to use idioms in job interviews. Is it okay to use informal English? The answer is yes and no. If you're familiar and comfortable with idioms, you may certainly use them. However, as with hand gestures, do not force idioms into your speech. If you're comfortable and confident in using idioms and use them in your everyday life then go ahead. Idioms can help you sound natural and relaxed. So they are okay to use. Watch John answer again. You will see that the idioms he uses combined with his body language create a comfortable, yet confident and professional impression.
Play video starting at :8:26 and follow transcript8:26
To learn and practice more idioms used in business, check out the worksheets attached to this lesson. [MUSIC]


>> Yeah, so my work history has provided me with a number of different skills that I think are relevant to United Health. My ability to design and manage projects effectively, to stay organized and meet deadlines, and to make decisions based on data analysis. At my current job, I manage two IT projects related to financial services. One has a $1.5 miilion budget and the other a $3 million budget. I work with a team of 7 people and I manage 3 employees. I've drafted scopes of work with project milestones and timelines and I've determined the level of effort for partners who are implementing our software. I manage the budgets of both projects on a day to day basis.
Play video starting at :3:4 and follow transcript3:04
My project management position in New York allowed me to really hone my time management skills. With a $2.1 million budget, I set staff and resource requirements for the portfolio of tasks in that project. I often worked under tight deadlines to develop organization charts and scopes of work. I also balance competing priorities among collecting data, communicating with partners, and some marketing work as well. I've learned some valuable methods from managing my time.
Play video starting at :3:34 and follow transcript3:34
Now, at both my internship and my New York position I performed extensive data analysis with a focus on specific metrics that could assist our decision making. I learned to be methodical, and detail oriented.
Play video starting at :3:47 and follow transcript3:47
Now, at my current job, I rely heavily on empirical data to ensure that the path we're on is backed up by evidence. In fact, I just recently suggested adding a feature to one of our programs based on usage data that we collected from our clients. We added the feature, and have gotten great feedback on it.
Play video starting at :4:6 and follow transcript4:06
I'm confident that these skills, project management, time management, and data-driven decision making, these are skills I can bring to United Health to help you achieve your goals of helping others lead healthier lives and driving innovation.
Play video starting at :4:20 and follow transcript4:20
>> I'd like you to take note of the strategy John used. Notice how the experience he relates all apply directly to the position he's interviewing for. He doesn't ramble. He doesn't wander off track and talk about experiences of limited relevance. Observe as well how he structures his response. He starts with a brief introduction to show that he has understood the question. And to preview for the interviewer the skills most relevant to the position he is applying for.
Play video starting at :4:53 and follow transcript4:53
He then makes three points to demonstrate those skills. He limits what he talks about to those experiences directly relevant to United Health's needs.
Play video starting at :5:5 and follow transcript5:05
He closes by recapping the three skills he talked about and bringing the response back to the main idea, United Health needs and how John can contribute to them.
Play video starting at :5:17 and follow transcript5:17
John also uses a number of collocations that you can use in your interviewing. Let's look at three of the most productive ones.
Play video starting at :5:27 and follow transcript5:27
Relevant skills.
Play video starting at :5:29 and follow transcript5:29
These are skills closely connected to the job at hand.
Play video starting at :5:33 and follow transcript5:33
Relevant, also goes with relevant information. Relevant evidence, a relevant question a relevant fact.
Play video starting at :5:48 and follow transcript5:48
And the preposition we use with relevant is most commonly to.
Play video starting at :5:53 and follow transcript5:53
Skills that are relevant to the position.
Play video starting at :5:58 and follow transcript5:58
Information that is relevant to the problem.
Play video starting at :6:1 and follow transcript6:01
Evidence that is relevant to the decision.
Play video starting at :6:6 and follow transcript6:06
John talks about meeting deadlines. In English, a deadline is the latest time or date by which something should be completed. The verbs that go with deadline are very specific.
Play video starting at :6:20 and follow transcript6:20
Set a deadline, establish when the deadline is.
Play video starting at :6:26 and follow transcript6:26
Extend the deadline.
Play video starting at :6:28 and follow transcript6:28
Move the time or date further into the future.
Play video starting at :6:32 and follow transcript6:32
Meet a deadline, complete a task by the latest time or date.
Play video starting at :6:38 and follow transcript6:38
Miss a deadline, fail to complete a task by the latest time or date
Play video starting at :6:44 and follow transcript6:44
English also used the collocation to use under a tight deadline. Meaning to work under pressure without much time to complete a task. Besides, tight deadline, another common adjective used in English to describe a dead line is firm. A firm deadline cannot be extended.
Play video starting at :7:9 and follow transcript7:09
You can set a firm deadline. A project can have a firm deadline. You can be working under a firm deadline.
Play video starting at :7:18 and follow transcript7:18
Finally, John talks about balancing competing priorities. The priority in English is something regarded as important. Common collocations with priority include, a top priority, what is most important, a high priority, what is very important, a low priority, what is not very important If high and low can be used for priority, then highest and lowest can also be used to describe a priority.
Play video starting at :7:52 and follow transcript7:52
English does not have the word uppest or most up, but it does have the words utmost or foremost, as in client health is United Health's topmost priority.
Play video starting at :8:8 and follow transcript8:08
What about competing priorities? Competing priorities means two or more high priority tasks that all require attention. To balance competing priorities means, to manage your time so that all these priorities get the attention they need. So there you have complications with relevance, with bedline, and with priority. Three sets of language that you can use in many business situations. 

>> John, why are you looking to leave your current position?
Play video starting at :2:10 and follow transcript2:10
>> Well, let's see. Over the last five years my career has taken me from intern to manager. And along each step of the way, I've learned, developed, and improved my skills. I'm grateful that my current position has enabled me to hone my skills as a project manager and supervisor.
Play video starting at :2:28 and follow transcript2:28
However at this point, I'm ready to take my career to the next level, and take on a more senior role with an increased amount of responsibility.
Play video starting at :2:36 and follow transcript2:36
As a senior project manager at United Health, I would be able to take on more responsibility in that senior role.
Play video starting at :2:42 and follow transcript2:42
I'd also be working for an organization whose mission is to help others lead healthier lives. I love the saying health is wealth, because it's so true. If you have your health, you basically have everything. Working for an organization that drives innovation to help others with healthier lives would really be an honor.
Play video starting at :3:3 and follow transcript3:03
>> Why not just seek a more senior role in your current company?
Play video starting at :3:7 and follow transcript3:07
>> Yeah, well, that was my first idea. My current company does understand my desire to grow and take on more responsibilities, but at this point, they just simply can't offer me the opportunity. The projects I'm managing are winding down and the company has opted not to invest further in financial services. So, at this point in my career, I'm looking to grow with a company that is results oriented and committed to innovation and that brings me to United Health. And a position where I believe I can contribute through my commitment to customer service, my communication skills, and my experience in data driven decision making. Plus, the more I think about the healthcare sector, the stronger my desire to work in your field. I've worked in financial services, business administration, and IT projects and those are challenging fields, and they do help make the world a better place. But, working in the health care industry for a company that is driving innovation to help others lead healthier lives,
Play video starting at :4:5 and follow transcript4:05
that's a higher level mission that speaks to my passion.


>> John, tell me what's important to you in a work environment >> Well, for me, I work best in an environment that emphasizes teamwork and focuses on client satisfaction. I also tend to do my best work when I'm surrounded by intelligent, driven colleagues. Now, first and foremost, an atmosphere of teamwork is important to me in a work environment. While individual accolades are nice, the overall achievement of the team is the true barometer of a successful project.
Play video starting at :3:8 and follow transcript3:08
I'm looking to be part of a team that has high standards and demands excellence. Also, in my experience, what I've noticed is that when successful projects have strong teams, the end result is a high degree of client satisfaction.
Play video starting at :3:23 and follow transcript3:23
I pride myself on ensuring that the clients we're working for, and the partners we're working with, are happy with our results. So I guess in my mind, customer satisfaction is directly connected with a successful team.
Play video starting at :3:37 and follow transcript3:37
And finally, I like to be surrounded by intelligent people who are passionate about what they do.
Play video starting at :3:43 and follow transcript3:43
When I see this type of passion and energy from colleagues and senior leadership it just fuels my motivation to give my best effort and deliver results. >> Which of these is most important to you? >> I would have to choose teamwork. Being able to work in teams and having a knack for interpersonal relationships is absolutely crucial to the success of projects and to satisfying clients. I consider myself an approachable supervisor, yet I'm also clear in my expectations.
Play video starting at :4:13 and follow transcript4:13
>> Notice how John focuses on the environment that helps him do his best work. That shows his ambition to excel and aligns with the mission of the company he's interviewing with. He focuses on the right behaviors, doing your best, helping a team succeed. And he focuses on strong elements of the organizational culture, high standards, passionate colleagues, customer satisfaction. John does not talk about the size of the workplace, that's something he could have brought in. That a larger company have financial strength, and carefully designed procedures to facilitate the work flow. He could have reiterated the company's commitment to innovation. But, overall, his response demonstrates the kind of focus you should have. I'd like to point out a few of the collocations John uses. Remember collocations are word groupings that commonly go together. You learned about collocations in module five of the first course in this specialization. You see here common collocations with the word technology. Here, the size of the image represents the relative frequency of the collocation. So the most common collocation is use technology. John uses a common collocation in his answer when he uses the transition first and foremost. This is a way of saying what's most important. John then refers to the individual accolades. An accolade is praise given for good work or a good achievement. It is often used to refer to awards and special honors.

An important point for interviewing is to keep your answers positive. In the videos, you saw John highlight his knowledge, skills, and ability. But he was also careful to use language that left a positive impression with the interviewer. He used language that let the interviewer see him in action as a man who can get things done. We have John with us here now. So let's hear what he has to say about this.
Play video starting at ::36 and follow transcript0:36
John, let's start with your strategy for answering the time honored tell me about yourself. >> First of all, Daniela, this question, and you can pretty much guarantee that it'll be one of the first asked, really means tell me why I should hire you. The interviewer is not asking for your life story or to hear about an award you won in college. The interviewer wants to hear why he or she should hire you. So, you have to sell yourself.
Play video starting at :1:5 and follow transcript1:05
The positive language means more than your words. It starts with the way you sit, the way you present yourself, the way you speak. At United Health, I'm interviewing for a senior management position. So, I have to speak with authority. Customer service is key to the job so I want to make sure I connect with the interviewer. I do that through the way I speak, the eye contact I make and the way I use my voice.
Play video starting at :1:30 and follow transcript1:30
Go back and watch my response. You'll hear energy in my voice. You'll see enthusiasm in my eyes. You'll see I smile. I'm selling myself and I'm excited about the product.
Play video starting at :1:41 and follow transcript1:41
>> All right, so you're talking about being positive in the use of body language and vocal variety. That makes sense, what else? You say you're selling your self, how? >> The interviewer has a job to fill. You're strategy should aim at persuading the interviewer that you're a good fit for the job. That's easy to say. Think about something simple like buying a pair of shoes.
Play video starting at :2:3 and follow transcript2:03
A salesperson will show you five different pairs of shoes. They're all in your size but that doesn't mean they all fit. Do they fit the unique shape of your foot? Do they fit your personal style? Do they fit your specific purpose for buying the shoe? And that's just for a pair of shoes. For a new hire the process is much more complex.
Play video starting at :2:25 and follow transcript2:25
>> Okay John, so if you were a pair of shoes, what kind of shoe would you be? >> [LAUGH] Well, there's a wild card question for you. But, if you want to know I would be the kind of shoe that fits. So, in an interview I want to make it clear how I can benefit the company. How what I bring and everything I bring, my character, my competencies fits the company's needs. How I fit into the organizational culture. How I can support the company's mission. How I grasp what the job calls for and can take that on. The interview process is about finding the best fit. The best person for the job, for that company. >> Great point. So what's your strategy to answering, tell me about yourself?
Play video starting at :3:11 and follow transcript3:11
>> I respond to the question, why should I hire you? So I briefly highlight my experience and skills and emphasis how these tie in to the requirements of the position. I've found that the best way to do this, is to focus on those key competencies I can demonstrate, that will best fit the organization. For United Health, I chose my competencies in managing time, budgeting resources and keeping clients happy.
Play video starting at :3:38 and follow transcript3:38
>> And once you have those established, where do you go from there?
Play video starting at :3:42 and follow transcript3:42
After you point out the key competencies, then you give some examples of how you demonstrate those competencies. From there, you move to how you would benefit the company, and then your expected professional development. And then I like to close with a question back to the interviewer.
Play video starting at :3:59 and follow transcript3:59
>> Very nice. I like the structured response. It's easy to translate to any interview context. Let's move on to a different question. If the interviewer asks you directly, what makes you the best candidate, what's your strategy there? >> During my preparation, I've already identified what I think are the top three competencies a winning candidate should be able to demonstrate. Then, I thought about what makes me unique. I'll present that using the basic introduction, three main points, conclusion form. This is a standard structure taught throughout the English language world. In fact, it's taught from grade school up through University. So an interviewer can follow it almost automatically.
Play video starting at :4:44 and follow transcript4:44
>> And you're using positive language to highlight your experience? >> Definitely. In my response, I use words like supported, engaged, managed, planned, proposed. These are all action words. For example, instead of saying I was responsible for a multi million dollar project. I say I managed a multi million dollar project. I was responsible for is passive. I managed is active. I can also say I directed, I delegated, I motivated. Again, all action words. They communicate positive actions that I undertook to achieve results. Because that's my take on the number one thing a hiring manager at United Health is looking for in a project manager. Someone who can get things done.
Play video starting at :5:32 and follow transcript5:32
>> Makes sense, but how do you use positive language when the question asks for negative information? Something like why are you looking to leave your current position? What's your strategy in answering questions like that? >> Why does that have to be a negative? I think that's the key to an effective strategy Daniella. Even if you're asked about a failure or about your greatest weakness, that doesn't have to be negative.
Play video starting at :5:56 and follow transcript5:56
Take for example the famous American inventor, Thomas Edison, he had a famous line, he said I haven't failed, I've just found 10,000 ways that won't work. And this shows how a negative can be turned into a positive. And your greatest weakness? If you've really reflected on that question, use that to show positive self-awareness. If you've taken action to address the weakness, use that to show positive self-management. >> That makes sense. How are you going to apply that to the question? >> So let's look at it. Why am I looking to leave my current position? It's framed as a negative. Why do I want to leave? But why can't it be a positive? Certainly I'm not going to talk badly about the company I'm leaving. I don't want to burn any bridges. But more than that there's a positive reason. I want to continue my own personal development. So think about it. In life we often have to give up one thing to get another. When you left home for the first time, was it because you wanted to leave your parents or was it because you want to set up off your own? You had to let one thing go to grab hold of another. So that's my strategy here. I'm leaving behind a great company with great people, where I learned a lot and had great experiences. That's how I choose to think about it. That's the attitude I choose. But now, I'm moving forward to another great company with more great people, where I have even greater opportunities. I'll highlight how the company I’m interviewing with represents a great opportunity. I'll frame of discussion as an opportunity and I'll use that word opportunity frequently in my response >> What other positive language elements of phrases can you incorporate in your response?
Play video starting at :7:42 and follow transcript7:42
>> Along with opportunity I might say something about my strong desire to work in a particular field or my ability to demonstrate my skills in a particular area. My top level strategy is to use positive language to show the interviewer that I'm enthusiastic and excited about the position I'm interviewing for. >> That sounds like a key point. Success in an interview is not about having answers for the interviewer. It's about having a strategic approach to the interview. That's smart business thinking strategically.
Play video starting at :8:13 and follow transcript8:13
We're running short on time here John. Any other advice for our viewers? >> I want to emphasize that you should have positive answers to everything. If an interviewer asks you about a former boss or a former job, see how positive you can keep it. If someone says tell me about your former boss, what will they think if you answer, my boss was very hands off. They'll wonder what's wrong with you that you needed your boss to be hands on. You'll leave a negative impression if you say negative things.
Play video starting at :8:44 and follow transcript8:44
>> But saying your boss was very hands off doesn't sound all that negative. >> Sure. Its not as unwise as saying he was a terrible boss, but I'm figuring our viewers are smart enough not to say that.
Play video starting at :8:57 and follow transcript8:57
My point is this. Think how different it would be to say, he was a great boss. He always gave the team plenty of space to let us make decisions on our own. He was there when we needed help, but it was great to feel how much he trusted us. Same idea, but phrased with strong positive language.
Play video starting at :9:16 and follow transcript9:16
>> Great point. Plus, it communicates your readiness to take responsibility.
Play video starting at :9:22 and follow transcript9:22
>> Exactly. It's positive and business savvy. Here's another example. A friend of mine just landed a great job. But he didn't finish college. And he was a little worried about that. He knew he'd get questioned on it. We talked it out. And I pressed him to think positively. He got frustrated with me and he finally blurted out I just wanted to get out and do things, college bored me. So I told him that's great now position that truth as a benefit to a company. He finally came up with something along the lines I like to be out there doing things. I finished several semesters, but I wanted to t get more done. And that's what my bosses have always said about me. I'm a guy who gets things done.
Play video starting at :10:5 and follow transcript10:05
And that's what I mean. He's being truthful but also positive and business savvy. >> Excellent. That's a great example. >> Before we go, I do want to say, remember you're talking to a specific company >> So do your research ahead of time, then you can keep the interview positive and make sure you steer in the right direction, the company's needs and how you can help.
Play video starting at :10:29 and follow transcript10:29
>> Great advice John.
Play video starting at :10:32 and follow transcript10:32
That's all for this lesson. We'll see you in the next video.