It was a project where we had to deliver an IT program to one of our clients. We missed a crucial deadline that set the deliverable date back a week. Our team had been running smoothly, and I was in charge of ensuring that all of our subcontractors were on board with the final product. I mistakenly assumed that we had buy-in from the client. But late in the game, I found out they actually wanted to talk about some of the final features of the IT program we were developing.
Play video starting at :3:54 and follow transcript3:54
I knew that the project's success depending on having everyone on board with the deliverable. I told my team we'd have to hit the pause button while I talked with the client.
Play video starting at :4:4 and follow transcript4:04
Once the client was good with our direction, we could then move ahead with the final deliverable.
Play video starting at :4:9 and follow transcript4:09
It turned out that this action was unnecessary. The client was, in fact, satisfied with what we were building, they just weren't 100% sure we were building what they wanted. When I met with them, they were not upset, but they also were careful to emphasize that they needed to be included in such conversations ahead of time. Our final deliverable was delayed by a week because of this communication breakdown, but I learned a key lesson about maintaining transparent communications with a client.
Play video starting at :4:39 and follow transcript4:39
>> How so? Can you elaborate on that point?
Play video starting at :4:42 and follow transcript4:42
>> Absolutely, this experience helped me understand how important timely and regular communication with a client is. My team and our subcontractors, we're all on the same page. And we were building what the client wanted, but I had assumed that the client knew that. And like someone who might order a car, was just waiting for the deliverable. I learned that I had to think of the client as part of the team, not as a customer waiting for a finished product. I learned that just as I was in constant communication with my team and subcontractors, I needed to be in constant communication with the client, especially as it relates to deliverables. I can't assume that everyone is on board with what's been decided. And even if that's the case, it's important that I go the extra mile to ensure that all participants are kept abreast of the process.
Play video starting at :5:32 and follow transcript5:32
>> Can you follow the story? I want you to notice how John sets the stage as he opens. He answers the interviewer's question in his first sentence. It was a time when his team missed a crucial deadline. This is a good choice because it previews for the interviewer the experience that John will narrate. It also communicates that John considers missing a crucial deadline to be a failure. That's an important subtext to the story.
Play video starting at :6:1 and follow transcript6:01
What is the target in John's story format?
Play video starting at :6:4 and follow transcript6:04
I think the target is implied in the story. John wanted to make sure that the client got the product that they wanted. What is the action? John uses the language, hit the pause button, to describe the action he had his team take.
Play video starting at :6:20 and follow transcript6:20
This is an English idiom. Like most idioms it conveys a picture. Sometimes you'll hear, push the pause button, which means the same thing. It means to stop an action temporarily.
Play video starting at :6:32 and follow transcript6:32
So John had his team stop what they were doing until he made sure the client was on board. That's another English idiom. If you say everyone was on board with the decision, that means everyone agrees with the decision. The picture here is as if everyone were all on board the same train, going to the same destination.
Play video starting at :6:55 and follow transcript6:55
How would you describe the result? Well, the result was John made a mistake in having his team hit the pause button, but what's important is the lesson he took from the experience. Everyone makes mistakes, but not everyone learns from their mistakes. In telling this story, John indicates that he's not the kind of manager to make the same mistake twice. He takes away an insight that is valuable to him as a professional, and valuable to any organization he would interview with. Remember, you tell stories so your interviewer can see you in action. Interviewers ask these questions because they feel how you behaved in the past is the best barometer they have for how you behave in the future. So craft your stories carefully. Be honest, but remember, you're telling your story to make a sale. 

When I was working on my bachelor's degree, I became really interested in personal health and fitness. I had always been into sports and athletics, and found myself playing soccer or going on runs, whenever I had the chance. In Michigan, I lived near a neighborhood where a lot of kids grew up in economically disadvantaged homes. I wanted to help out in some way, I talked with some people that I played soccer with on the weekends about what we might do. And that's when I came up with an idea, how great would it be to have an after school program for kids to play organized sports and learn from college students. In some way we could be role models for the kids, and at the same time teach some valuable lessons about teamwork, respect, perseverance and of course personal health.
Play video starting at :1:44 and follow transcript1:44
I was studying business admin at the time, using things I'd learned from my classes I developed an action plan with short-term and long-term goals. Funding mechanisms and staffing plans, within a month I was able to put the plan into action. I pitched the idea, lined up some school donors and managed to procure a small grant. And with that funding, we were able to establish an after school youth sports league for 50 kids. We played different sports as the seasons changed, and we had volunteer college students for coaches and referees. It was an incredible experience to see how happy the kids were running around, getting some exercise, learning about health.
Play video starting at :2:23 and follow transcript2:23
The volunteers were glad to give back to the community too.
Play video starting at :2:27 and follow transcript2:27
>> What are you most proud of?
Play video starting at :2:31 and follow transcript2:31
>> So I saw these kids living in a poor neighborhood and didn't feel right not doing something. I've been fortunate in life, but here these kids, just by luck of the draw, didn't seem to have a lot of chances. I felt I should somehow share my good fortune, and I wanted to help,
Play video starting at :2:47 and follow transcript2:47
what makes me proudest is having to start with an idea, a good idea. And then going through the process of moving that idea from concept, to development, to reality. It was like, wow, I can change the world for the better, and I was able to take the lessons from the classroom and apply them to real life. I learned a ton about project management, about proper planning, realistic design and time management. I learned about getting support for an idea, selling that idea, and raising money to support it. I also gained insight into creating and managing budgets, we bought equipment for the kids, paid for time on the playing field, ran marketing campaigns for our sports leagues. And we even hired a part time assistant to help out with the scheduling and to run the phones when we needed that. I put together staffing plans and remember, these were volunteers, volunteer referees, volunteer coaches. I learned a lot about motivating team members, because volunteers aren't working for money. They've got schedules, emergencies, it's a different world managing volunteers. But, I think overall, it was the experience of leadership, of taking initiative, of persevering and sticking with a project even when others were cynical about it. Seeing those kids having fun and knowing that even though it might have been a small thing, what we were doing was making a big difference in their lives. And that's what I'm really proud about, that's what means the most to me, even to this day. >> I hope you can see the situation, target action structure clearly now. But the results and what Jon takes away from the experience are what really impress a hiring manager. You get a feeling for Jon as a person, you understand how helping others is important to him. Remember, he is interviewing for a key role in a company that helps people live better lives. So his story should resonate well with the hiring manager,
Play video starting at :4:44 and follow transcript4:44
I want to draw your attention to some of the language Jon uses. Listen to his opening statement again.
Play video starting at :4:53 and follow transcript4:53
>> When I was working on my bachelors degree, I became really interested in personal health and fitness. I had always been into sports and athletics and found myself playing soccer or going on runs whenever I had the chance.
Play video starting at :5:5 and follow transcript5:05
>> Notice his use of tenses here, this is the sophisticated use of the English past tenses. Was working is the past progressive and describes something Jon was doing, an ongoing activity in the past. Then while that activity was ongoing, Jon became interested. He uses the simple past to position his becoming interested as a point in the past during the process.
Play video starting at :5:33 and follow transcript5:33
English often uses the past progressive to describe an activity in the background, something was happening in the past. Then the speaker uses the simple past to present another activity in the foreground, something else happened.
Play video starting at :5:49 and follow transcript5:49
So while Jon was working on his bachelors degree, he became interested in personal health and fitness, now listen to how he continues.
Play video starting at :6: and follow transcript6:00
>> I had always been into sports and athletics and found myself playing soccer or going on runs whenever I had the chance.
Play video starting at :6:7 and follow transcript6:07
>> Do you recognize the tense sequences that Jon uses? It's the past perfect with the simple past, Jon uses the past perfect to emphasize that his love of sports and athletics dates back to his childhood. Well before the time he was at Michigan, then he shifts to the simple past, I found myself to re position the story to his time at Michigan.
Play video starting at :6:33 and follow transcript6:33
Jon demonstrates this same sophisticated use of the past tense a bit later when he says., >> I was studying business admin at the time, using things I'd learn from my classes, I developed an action plan with short-term and long-term goals, funding mechanism and staffing plans. >> Notice the three past forms he uses, the past progressive in was studying, the past perfect in had learned and the symbol past in developed.
Play video starting at :7:6 and follow transcript7:06
Jon uses was studying to position his studies at Michigan as background action in the past. Then he refers to things I'd learned, that's a contracted form of things I had learned. He uses to past perfect to make it clear that his classroom lessons had come earlier and his developing an action plan which he describes on the simple past came later.
Play video starting at :7:34 and follow transcript7:34
This sophisticated combination of past progressive, past perfect and simple past is typically used in telling a story. It might take some practice for you to master, I've included some practice activities after this lesson to help you out. 

When I first started at my current employer, I worked very hard to establish myself as a team player. One who was responsible would put the plan first, and I was a top candidate for promotion. Now manager positions are earned through an internal application process, so when the advertisement came out that a new manager position was available, I carefully crafted my expression of interest. And after a series of interviews, I got the promotion. But, taken the position would mean I'd have to supervise a person that I've been at the associate level with.
Play video starting at :1:52 and follow transcript1:52
After I was promoted, this individual Steve, he was very standoffish. I got the sense that he was upset that I got the position over him. And this created an uncomfortable atmosphere during meetings throughout the workday. At one point, he openly disagreed with me and argued that my strategy for one of our projects wouldn't work, in front of our bosses. I knew I had to do something to resolve the situation with Steve.
Play video starting at :2:16 and follow transcript2:16
I decided that I needed to first sit down and have a cup of coffee with him away from the office environment. So that's what I did. I asked Steve to go out for a cup of coffee with me. Away from work. And we sat down and talked over what had happened.
Play video starting at :2:30 and follow transcript2:30
>> How did that go? >> Steve, he was upset that I had been given the promotion over him, because he'd been an associate at the company for two years longer than I'd been an associate. We got into our work history a bit, and I came to discover that this was his first job in project management. He had switched careers. He had come from working in education. And I had three more years of experience in project management than he did.
Play video starting at :2:54 and follow transcript2:54
We looked again at the job requirements and saw that my work experience was, at that time, a better fit for the manager position.
Play video starting at :3:2 and follow transcript3:02
I could understand why Steve was upset and I encourage him to use the opportunity to gain experience. I also suggested he think about taking some classes to help him catch up a bit on business background. He seem to brighten up about that idea.
Play video starting at :3:16 and follow transcript3:16
>> What happened? What's the relationship like now? >> Actually, he was promoted recently as well. The best part about that is that I helped coach him on his interview responses and prepared him for some managerial questions that might be asked. And this was a key experience for me. My immediate reaction to Steve had been hey, it's a competition. You lost, I won, get over it. But I realized that kind of attitude wasn't doing either of us any good. Steve was on my team, and I needed his cooperation. The experience was an eye-opener for me because I could step out of the competition mindset. Remember, I have a sports background and I could really put myself in another person's shoes. Win-lose might be the way it works on a soccer field, but win- win is how it needs to work in business. My understanding his perspective allowed the conflict to be resolved. And the best thing is, we became friends and he was able to move on to better things.
Play video starting at :4:12 and follow transcript4:12
>> I hope you can see how John uses the story strategy in telling his story. I think his story shows that he's aware of how conflict can arise. He realized there could be a problem with Steve, even before accepting the promotion. But John was also confident enough to take the promotion and to take steps to resolve the conflict. Let's take a look at some of the language John uses. How did John describe Steve after the promotion?
Play video starting at :4:41 and follow transcript4:41
Steve was very standoffish. That means, he was distant, cold, and unfriendly.
Play video starting at :4:50 and follow transcript4:50
Later John says they got into their work history a bit. To get into something is an English idiom. In the sense John uses it, it means they talked about their work history. But it's a common idiom in English. For example, three common collocations are if you get or go into the details or specifics about something. You talk about the details or specifics. If you get into an argument, you argue with someone.
Play video starting at :5:18 and follow transcript5:18
Later, John uses a few expressions that are common in business, eye-opener, mindset, win-lose, and win-win. An eye-opener is a common idiom. Its meaning is almost literal, something that opens your eyes is an eye-opener. It's something that lets you see a situation in a way you never have before. We often use it in the collocation seen here.
Play video starting at :5:46 and follow transcript5:46
A mindset is also almost literal. It refers to a way of thinking. A set of attitudes that someone holds. To change your mindset means to adopt a new attitude. If someone has a confrontational mindset, he or she is always looking to argue. A win-win situation is a situation where both parties win, both parties gain something. By analogy, a win-lose situation refers to an outcome where there's a winner and a loser.
Play video starting at :6:20 and follow transcript6:20
By ending his story, emphasizing the importance of a win-win outcome, John again communicates a personal value system that aligns well with the position he's interviewing for. It's a real win-win situation for everybody. [MUSIC]

Throughout this specialization, we've emphasized the need to market yourself. Today, we're going to talk to John about strategies for doing that. >> Daniella, it's true that you need to market yourself to an employer, but there's actually a much larger strategy to think of first. >> What's that? >> Most candidates are self-centered, they're focused inward. They think about me, about their qualifications, their skills, their experiences. What can the job do for them. >> That's understandable. >> Sure, but I'm saying you need to shift your mindset. As you research competencies for a position, remember that the behavioral interviewing approach that we're talking about always looks at the employer's needs first. Your task is to think about how your competencies fit what the employer is looking for. Even though your first impulse will be to think about how the employer fits what you're looking for.
Play video starting at :1:7 and follow transcript1:07
>> So communicating benefits to an employer is not about all of the great skills you bring, it's about how you can benefit them. >> Right, when candidates go looking for a job they often think, I need a job that has great pay, great benefits, and an excellent work environment. But employers are looking for a candidate that can deliver results. To think through the interview from the employer's point of view, that's a mindset shift. >> You want to put yourself in the shoes of the organization that is looking to hire you. >> Exactly, the interviewer is always considering three questions. Can you do the job? Will you do the job? And how well will you fit in with organization's culture and people? >> That's why you go through your competency research, isn't it? And work up your story file? >> Yes, you identify the competencies needed for the position, and you get ready to talk about them using the star elements. >> So where exactly is the mindset shift? >> You need to think about your stories from the interviewer's perspective.
Play video starting at :2:11 and follow transcript2:11
For example, the position at UnitedHealth is focused on innovation. That's a leading competency they're looking for. So in my stories, I'm looking to demonstrate that I'm an innovator.
Play video starting at :2:23 and follow transcript2:23
>> How do you go about doing that?
Play video starting at :2:25 and follow transcript2:25
>> Well, first, and this is key, I had to be honest with myself. Am I an innovator? It's easy to fool ourselves and think sure, I can do that. But what are the characteristics of an innovator? Do I really have those? Where have I shown that? >> So what did you do?
Play video starting at :2:46 and follow transcript2:46
>> When I think of innovation, I think of Steve Jobs. He stands out as an innovator. He said, innovation distinguishes between a leader and a follower. So I have to ask myself honestly, am I a leader or a follower? >> And you decided you're a leader? >> I feel that I am, I'm creative. I feel that I'm an innovator but, am I really? So I did some research. Harvard Business Review ran an article about the five characteristics of successful innovators. The article highlighted the key difference between creativity and innovation. Innovation is execution, being able to turn an idea into a successful service or product.
Play video starting at :3:30 and follow transcript3:30
>> So what did you do with that insight? >> I thought, okay, UnitedHealth is looking for a project manager who can turn ideas about 21st century healthcare into a successful service. Do I believe I can do that? Why do I believe that, and can I demonstrate that to an interviewer? >> So, you're focusing on three key questions. Can you do the job? Will you do the job? Will you fit into the organization? >> Exactly, so first, do I have an opportunistic mindset? Am I alert to new opportunities? >> Because opportunities are at the heart of innovation. Yes, and again, first, I do my self examination. Does that really fit into who I am? And I think, absolutely. I seek variety all the time. I like to try new foods, visit new places, I'm always looking at situations and thinking, how can I improve them? And I feel in my bones, that I want to make an impact on the world, and especially in personal health.
Play video starting at :4:33 and follow transcript4:33
>> So, you're convincing yourself first. >> Absolutely, only if I'm convinced that I have what the organization is looking for, will I be convincing to the interviewer. >> So what's your next step? >> I ask myself, do I have the training? Am I an expert in this field? And there, I have to admit to myself, I have a passion for health care, but I have a lot to learn. So that's going on my list of weaknesses. But I can turn it into a strength by emphasizing that I'm open to new ideas and willing to do the work to create them. I wouldn't be coming into UnitedHealth thinking, I have all the answers. >> And you'll use that in your interview? >> Almost certainly. We'll talk later about the weaknesses question. But I'll just say right now, I'm not approaching that question in a vacuum either. I'll look at that question from the employer's point of view as well. >> Again, the leading question, can you do the job? >> Yes, what doubts might they have, and have I thought about those beforehand? And, can I answer those? >> That makes sense. So, you're shaping a strategy to UnitedHealth, not just in terms of stories that demonstrate your competencies, but also in terms of objections they might have? >> Yes, I'm anticipating their objections, their doubts, which come, again, from the hard thinking I've put in to my preparation. Really thinking it through from the employer's point of view. >> So what else does an innovator need? >> An innovator needs persistence. Innovators face resistance, they have to. Innovation is bringing new ideas to life, to reality, so am I driven, resilient, energetic? >> And are you? What does your self examination show? >> Here I think I shine, I have a healthy dose of can do and will do. And I've got plenty of stories to back that up. So I have no doubts about my competency there. >> And the fact that you're convinced? >> Lets me be convincing, exactly. >> So where did you go next with your thinking? >> Again, I'm using my research to guide my questioning. Back to the Harvard Business Review article. The author makes the point that successful innovators have a healthy dose of prudence. They do take risks, but contrary to what many people think, they're not reckless, they're organized, they plan, they monitor. Because remember, innovation is execution. >> And what did you discover about yourself there? >> That resonates with me. The project I did with the youth group, I was the driving force behind organizing and planning, but I never lost sight of the long term vision. I was patient enough to take the steps to get us there. >> So what I hear you saying again and again is you ask questions from the employer's point of view, then examine yourself as if you were the interviewer. >> And that's what I'm trying to do. And that's what's key here, Daniella, is I'm vetting myself. I'm thinking from the organization's point of view, or at least trying to, and asking myself, can I do this job? Do I have what it takes? And if I think the answer is no, I go on to another position. >> But doesn't that open the door to self doubt?
Play video starting at :7:44 and follow transcript7:44
>> You have to distinguish between real self understanding and false anxiety. I have to be honest with myself before I can be honest with anyone else. I understand what I can do, I can manage projects, but I'm not a medical expert, I'm not a database expert. >> But those are key competencies, don't you think? >> Sure, but that points to the social capital I can create. Can I build relationships? Can I build good connections and strong alliances, both internally and externally? Because I'll need to do that. Innovation is always the product of teams. Research shows that entrepreneurial people tend to have a high EQ and that- >> John, some of our viewers might not know what EQ is. >> Yeah, thanks Daniella. EQ, emotional quotient, or emotional intelligence. Can you recognize your own and other people's emotions? Can you use emotional information to guide thinking and action. >> Sure, you can't be a stranger to yourself or others. >> Exactly, it's EQ that enables an innovator to sell his ideas and strategy to others, and communicate the core mission to the team. >> And you feel you can do that? >> Absolutely, I have the stories to back that up. That's how I approach any task, looking to put together a team. I know myself, that resonates with me. >> So in the end, you convince yourself that you have the characteristics of a true innovator. >> Yes, and the long term vision to go with it. Health care, providing real solutions to as many people as I can. That's a meaningful mission to me. And I'm not faking that to get a job. I'm convinced, and so, I can be convincing. >> Leading from your why, that makes a lot of sense. John, we have to close here. Can you summarize this strategy for us? >> What I'm talking about is working from an outward focus, moving off the inward focus. Successful marketing shifts the mindset from product features to customer benefits. Steve Jobs new that most people don't buy a super-megapixel camera. They just wanted a simple to take, crystal clear, life-like photos to share with their friends. The interview mindset shift is the same, moving from candidate features to employer benefits, from my qualifications to the employer's core competencies. That means putting the effort into thinking the job through from the employer's perspective. What are they looking for, then being honest with yourself, looking at yourself from the employer's point of view and going forward from there. >> Thanks, John. I look forward to hearing what you do with this.

 A lot of people think that Daniella, they think the person who's going to get the job is the one with the most skills and qualifications, but that's not really the case. >> No, why not? It makes sense to me. >> It might seem to, but not from the point of view of the employer. No skill, no schooling, no experience will ever excuse character failings. An honest beginner beats an experienced complainer every day. The first one makes a team stronger. The second one is poison. And it's the health of the team that always outweighs any one individual. >> But you're interviewing for a senior position. John, if you don't have experience and skills, that's not going to work for the company. >> Sure, but character trumps competence every time. >> Character trumps competence, I like that. >> It's not my phrase, it comes from Dr. Tim Irwin. He's one of the world's top consultants on leadership. He's worked with Bank of America, IBM, Coca-Cola, really a who's who list of Fortune 500 heavyweights. >> And that's his idea, that character trumps competence? >> It's not just his idea. Mahatma Gandhi said, your values become your destiny. Well, Irwin took that idea and ran with it. He looked at the destiny of failed leaders, really huge leadership failures. He looked at what causes a leader to fail and what all of us can learn from those failures. And the first of his big lesson is that character trumps confidence. >> But what's new about that? We all know that honesty and integrity are important. You lie and cheat and it will come back to bite you. Is that what he's talking about? >> Yes, but it goes much further. We're not talking about the Enrons of the world. >> So what are you talking about? >> These are personal values that Irwin calls the four dimensions of character. The first is authenticity, being authentic. In English, we might say being real, genuine, not a phony. People sense pretty clearly when you're putting on an act. >> If authenticity is the first dimension, what are the other three? >> The next is self management, or self-awareness. Do you take responsibility for your own actions? Are you aware of how you're affecting other people? Good leaders are, poor leaders aren't. The same applies for good employees and good coworkers. >> Yeah, responsibility is high on my list. What are the last two? >> Humility, and courage. It's the dark side of these qualities that dooms us. >> How so? >> Think about the shadow side of humility, arrogance. Irwin found that arrogance is the number one cause of poor leadership. Poor leaders are almost always competent. They're accomplished, they're educated, they're qualified. But they're arrogant and self-centered. They believe that the world revolves around them. They think they're so important, the organization can't function without them. Or they take everything personally, put themselves or their feelings first and the rest of the team way back in second place. And that self-centered focus makes other people feel stepped on. Makes other people feel like they don't matter, and that brings the whole team down.
Play video starting at :4:5 and follow transcript4:05
>> Hm, that sheds a whole new light on why you've been emphasizing putting the employer's needs first in an interview. >> Exactly, if I come to an interview thinking it's all about me, then I'll probably do the same in the workplace, or with a customer. If I can't take the time to think about the needs of my prospective employer, then all my talk about customer focus is probably just empty words. Competencies are important, sure, but, they're just acquired skills. If you don't know how to use a piece of software, okay, you can learn that. But if you don't know how to treat others with respect, if you have to learn how to work as a team instead of always for yourself, or how to be disciplined, then the organization is in trouble. The point is that a failure of character is much worse than a failure of competence.
Play video starting at :4:58 and follow transcript4:58
>> Okay, that makes sense. But how does an interviewer measure your character, your humility, or your courage, or your self awareness, or your authenticity? >> Well, we've already talked about some of that. How you present yourself to an interviewer, how you conduct yourself during the interview, that will say a lot about how real you are and how self aware. But I think it's these what if questions that really get at how you treat people. When it comes to your personal values and dealing with others, with customers or coworkers, this what would you do if questions, they're revealing. >> Can you explain that some more? >> Sure, say an interviewer asks me how I would deal with a subordinate who was slacking off. Or a customer who was in the wrong but thought he was in the right. Or a superior who had made a decision that I thought was wrong. >> Okay. >> How I treat other people is going to come out in my answer pretty quickly. If I lean back and say, that idea about the customer always being right is just nonsense, or talk about how I threatened to fire that subordinate, or about the bosses that I worked with who didn't have a clue. Well, you'd probably think, this guy's a jerk. He's going to be a pain to work with. >> I see, so these questions get at how well you are able to get along with others and work on teams. >> And whether you're good at resolving conflicts and dealing with difficult people. Do you have the ability to influence others in a positive way? Can you stay calm and level headed when dealing with demanding situations? >> Your people skills. >> Exactly, are you a good fit for the organizational culture? >> Okay, sure, now I understand. So you actually have specific strategies you use to address these questions. >> Yes, remember, hiring managers want to see that you can think analytically and solve real problems. In real life, that usually means people problems, personality conflicts, unstated expectations. So and so drops the ball, changes come down that stress everybody out. Using these strategies gives me a way to demonstrate careful and thoughtful approaches to handling these situations. Plus, I might have a story that relates to a similar situation. And then I can tie in a story about a particular issue, what happened, and how the difficulty was resolved. >> That's great, using stories is a great way to be concrete and specific in your answers. Many managers hate it when an interviewee is too general in his or her responses. >> That's right Daniela, being specific is part of the English language culture. Give us the details, the specifics, the hard data. Answering a situational interview question with the general none tailored response is a missed opportunity. >> A non-tailored response? What do you mean by that? >> I mean tailoring, as in customizing, like a tailor customizes clothes to fit you. For every organization, there are personal qualities that organization puts a lot of value in. You need to show that you have those qualities. Choosing a strategy that lets you communicate those qualities allows you to tailor the answer to the organization you're interviewing with.
Play video starting at :8:10 and follow transcript8:10
You know the qualities that the organization puts a lot of value in because you've done your research. Within the framework of the situational question, you use the opportunity to show you have those qualities. That's what I mean by a tailored response. The strategies I'll tell you about next all work that way.
Play video starting at :8:29 and follow transcript8:29
>> So, you talk about your personal values using these strategies? >> Absolutely, it's a great opportunity to communicate who you are and so build trust. >> Sounds great. Let's go ahead and jump right in. 

I think this kind of question is a composure test. The answer you give is less important than how you give it. The interview really wants to see how you handle the unexpected. Do you get flustered? Do you think, why is he asking me this crazy question? Or do you have fun with the question? Do you, as we say in English, roll with the punches? Go with the flow? The interviewer's looking to see how you handle an unexpected question.
Play video starting at :1:20 and follow transcript1:20
>> And you're going to answer a wildcard question, like you would a what would you do if question?
Play video starting at :1:26 and follow transcript1:26
>> Why not? Say somebody asks, if you could trade places with anyone, who would it be? I'd come back with, I'd trade places with you and hire me on the spot.
Play video starting at :1:37 and follow transcript1:37
>> Nice, John. Shows a sense of humor and a quick wit. Okay, let's get back to strategies. In this lesson, you're going to show us the prep strategy. Or should I say P.R.E.P. strategy? >> I think of it as a good prep, but it's really an acronym. P-R-E-P stands for point, reason, example, point. Sometimes, you can use P-E-R-P doing point, example, then reason and point. Either way works. You start off by clearly stating the point you want to make, then you share your primary reason, or reasons. Then share an example, preferably in story form, where your main point or reason is supported. Finally, you conclude by summarizing your main point again. The strategy works well in many situations.
Play video starting at :2:31 and follow transcript2:31
>> Sounds good. Why don't we try it out with a real interview question? >> That works for me. What did you have in mind?
Play video starting at :2:38 and follow transcript2:38
>> How about this one, what if you were introducing a new idea or policy to your team and you met resistance? How would you handle the situation?
Play video starting at :2:48 and follow transcript2:48
First off, I start with the key point I want to make. I'm thinking about the United Health position. They're looking for a project manager to head up an innovation team. So I want to show them that I can lead a team to adopt an innovative approach. I know they don't want a dictator in there, especially when I think about the fact that these innovative approaches won't just be sold to my team, but also to clients, doctors, health care professionals, regular folks, everybody throughout the healthcare industry.
Play video starting at :3:18 and follow transcript3:18
Now, it just so happens that I have a story I can use with this. So I'll use the P-R-E-P strategy, and then I'll tie my story in to that response.
Play video starting at :3:29 and follow transcript3:29
>> Okay, so what's the key point you want to make? How would you start? >> I might say something like this. I believe that innovation starts with seeing things differently than others. It's starts with looking at a problem and finding a way to dramatically change for the better. But seeing things differently means other are not going to see it that way. Not at first, so I'm not going to fight the resistance. I'm going to welcome the resistance. That's going to be my big point, that I anticipate the situation and I'm ready for it. And I've tailored my response to a situation that could happen at United Health. >> Interesting, and your point communicates passion for other people. You show that you're ready and willing to think about things from their point of view.
Play video starting at :4:12 and follow transcript4:12
>> Exactly. And then I'll give my reasons for taking this approach. In doing so, I'll demonstrate my analytic side. So I might say, it would be easy to think of the resistance as a negative, but that would disrespect my team. What's important here is trust. I trust that the members of my team are all trying to do their best. They just think that the new approach will somehow not work. So I want to understand where they're coming from and listen very closely to their concerns because this is my team.
Play video starting at :4:44 and follow transcript4:44
They might have insights that can make the new idea even better.
Play video starting at :4:48 and follow transcript4:48
>> Great point. And again, you let us see what kind of man you are without you having to say it, interesting. I understand your reasons now, and how they support the main point you want to make. Where does the example move fit in? Here, I'm going to use an example from my story file. And there was a time when I wanted to introduce a centralized workflow scheme that would involve coordinating the efforts of two of my junior project managers. And there was some pushback because it meant each project manager would lose some of his autonomy, and there would be more work for the team, but the result would be a higher quality deliverable. So I'd use that story as my example and tell it using S-T-A-R, the star approach, like I did in the last module, starting with the situation. I was managing a large project and realized that centralizing workflow through two of our project managers would help ensure the quality of our deliverables. And there was some resistance from the team, more work, and also from the project managers because each thought he could lose some control over his part of the project. My target, I understood where everyone was coming from. But I also knew that both of the project managers were wrestling with difficult quality control issues In their individual projects. I thought if they saw the advantages to centralization, they'd get on board.
Play video starting at :6:12 and follow transcript6:12
My action, first of all, I wanted to let them know that my idea was going to mean more work and I could understand the concerns. I went to each of them privately and told them straight up that I'd probably feel hesitant in their place. But I asked them what they'd be willing to do if it meant eliminating the quality problems we were having. I pointed out that on our previous project, we had used a similar checkpoint system and it had worked well. Centralizing workflow was all about improving quality.
Play video starting at :6:41 and follow transcript6:41
And last, the result. Once they realized I wasn't criticizing them, but I was trying to help them, they came up with a good idea to simplify the checkpoint system we had used before. I then had buy in from the key players, and could introduce the idea in our next team-wide meeting. In the end, by centralizing workflow, we were able to resolve our quality control issues. Both project managers ended up looking good, and of course, the customer was happy. >> That's an example that shows how you welcome the resistance instead of fighting it. >> Yes, and it lends credibility to my response to the interviewers hypothetical situation.
Play video starting at :7:18 and follow transcript7:18
>> You then closed by what, restating your point? Describing the point I'd made. Maybe I'd say, trying to bully people into accepting a new idea never works. I know I wouldn't like it. But by being flexible and looking for the best solution, a solution arrived at by the team, it's a win, win, win situation. Win for the team, win for the organization, and a win for the customer. >> That's a nice touch, saying you know you wouldn't like it. Shows you can put yourself in the other person's shoes. And you don't mention a win for yourself. Clever and subtle. >> It's all about strategy.
Play video starting at :7:57 and follow transcript7:57
>> Just to recap, you started with the main point you wanted to make, tailored to the specific interview situation. That's the P. Then you gave your reasons, that's the R. Then an example to illustrate your point, the E. And you close by restating the point you made, the final P.
Play video starting at :8:15 and follow transcript8:15
That's great, I wish I could get my writing students to that. >> Yep, P-R-E-P is a great strategy. It goes a long way. Thanks for the insights, John. I look forward to hearing about your next strategy. 


John can you walk us through this strategy? >> Happy to. This is a pros versus cons strategy. You start off by framing the issue, then you talk about the benefits, and then talk about the drawbacks. Finally, you conclude with your recommendation. >> What's your thinking behind the strategy? >> Well remember, one of the reasons a hiring manager poses these what if questions is to draw out your analytical and problem solving skills. Using the pros versus cons reasoning strategy is a great way to highlight these skills, especially your analytical skills. >> Why is that? >> You start by identifying the key issue. That in itself demonstrates your ability to zero in on what's important. Then you weigh the arguments for one case of action, the pros, against the counter arguments, the cons. Which side outweighs the other? That pro versus con approach leads you, through reasoning and analysis, to a conclusion. >> How does that compare to using PREP?
Play video starting at :1:25 and follow transcript1:25
>> The PREP strategy also lets you demonstrate your powers of reasoning. There, it's the way you explain your reasons and offer examples. But offering arguments both for and against shows you as more even handed, more neutral. And that translates into more trustworthy. You can look at issues from different points of view. You're not married to one or the other. That's important for almost any position. >> Can you give us an example? >> Sure, again, I'm thinking of the United Health position. Innovation, they've got big name competitors, Blue Cross and Blue Shield, Caremark, the Kaiser Foundation, Aetna. These are all big companies who are competing for innovative solutions.
Play video starting at :2:7 and follow transcript2:07
So, let's take a what if question that is tailored for companies that compete for leading, innovative solutions. This is healthcare, but it could be a big tech company, or even a small startup. The question is, you have reason to believe that a fellow manager is preparing to divulge company secrets to a rival corporation, and these secrets have the potential to really damage the company, how would you deal with this situation? >> Okay, corporate espionage. So now, are you going to play James Bond. >> [LAUGH] Maybe, but what would Mr. Bond think? Country first, same thing for me. I've got to think company first. Well, what's the issue? >> What is the issue? >> The interviewer says I have reason to believe. Well, what are those reasons? So to me, that's a key question. Do I have actual proof? Do I have hard evidence? So I would probably open with, if I know that the fellow is preparing to divulge secrets, then I would act to protect the company. But if I don't have actual proof, then I would act to protect the relationship with the man. That's how I would frame the issue. >> That way, you demonstrate your reasoning. You're not just willing to accept the assumption. >> Right. >> Great, and to frame the discussion, let's use this question. What would you do if you believed strongly in a recommendation you made in a meeting, but most of your coworkers shot it down? >> Yeah, that is a great question to use the pro versus con strategy. With this strategy, first we need to identify the issue. Next, we talk about the benefits, the pros. then, we about the drawbacks, the cons. And then we conclude with our recommendation. >> So far, so good. Can we see it in action? >> Let's go for it. As before, I'll use a story that I've identified from my professional past to respond to this question. I can't emphasize enough how crucial it is to have these stories prepared ahead of time. In this case, we'll use the same story as before but I'll repurpose it to fit this strategy.
Play video starting at :4:12 and follow transcript4:12
>> Interesting. So you've come up with stories from your experience that can be used in multiple ways? >> Definitely, this is a key point. Having specific stories that can be used to answer multiple behavior or situational interview questions is a key component to successful interviewing. >> That's great advice. >> Absolutely, okay, so as before, I've made the recommendation to centralize workflow through a centralized system. However, in this case, there's some pushback from coworkers. Here's how I approach this question, at this point. First, I establish the issue. My response would start like this, this is something I've dealt with before. In my case, I asked to present my argument at our next meeting. My first step was to present the issue. We were having quality control issues on deliverables to our client. So I framed the larger issue in terms of client satisfaction and quality control. Then I have to present the pros and cons. During the presentation, I talked about the improved quality that would come from a manager's review, as well as the improved relationship with our client. The negative impact is that for employees, it's an extra layer of bureaucracy, and we might run the risk of project delays. Finally, I need to give a recommendation. So in this case I said, I think we should try out this system for three months. We can analyze whether or not it's working, and then tweak the system or scrap it if it's not effective. And this was accepted as a good compromise. And we implemented the quality control system. I'm happy to report that it's still in use today. >> Wow, excellent answer. I like how you included the update on its status today. >> Yeah, if you happen to know that information, that's a natural thing to include. >> Thanks for helping out today, John. We'll see you next time. >> Thanks, happy to be here.

What would you do if the priorities on a project you were working on changed suddenly?
Play video starting at :1:3 and follow transcript1:03
>> That's a good one. It comes up a lot in interviews. First of all, remember the key to answering any of these questions is to shift your thinking from, what I would do is, to I think the organizations priority in this situation would be. Once you've done this, you then need to think in terms of results. What results can you deliver in this situation. >> So how are you going to respond with the five Ws? >> First I'll ask, who is impacted by this change? Will I need to reach out to a client outside the company? Will I need to reach out to a client inside the company? Who needs to be briefed on the on the changing priorities?
Play video starting at :1:43 and follow transcript1:43
>> Then you'll move to the what. >> And that's key here. Remember when we talked about outward focus? So I'm going to ask what the company's priorities are here. Have they shifted focus on a project because they'll realize some cost savings? Maybe for increased revenue? Is the shift in response to changing requirements from a client? What is the company's priority? My response will then focus on the results the company hopes to achieve. >> So that's you first two Ws. What's next?
Play video starting at :2:13 and follow transcript2:13
>> I'm going to need to know the when. If the priorities have changed then the schedules have changed. Now let's assume that the priorities have changed because of a shift in say client priorities. And instead of feature x in a product we're working on, the client has decided that feature y is more important. When does the client need that? Once I have that when answered I can adjust the schedule and resource allocations. >> And what's next? >> I'll think about the where. Where am I going to pull resources from and where am I going to add them? In the example I came up with, I'll pull resources from the team working on feature x and move them to the team working on feature y. That will, of course, impact the who as well. Both teams will need attention. >> And the why, how does that figure in?
Play video starting at :3:1 and follow transcript3:01
>> Let's continue with the hypothetical example. I've got one team working on feature x, another on feature y. Pulling the first team off of x is going to cause some hard feelings. And I can't just drop the x team into the y group and expect everything to work out smoothly. So I'm going to go back to the what. What are the company's priorities? What are the driving factors behind this change? And I'm going to cast those factors in terms of the why that I present to both team x and team y.
Play video starting at :3:32 and follow transcript3:32
Because the people on team x will need to be clear on how their new responsibilities fit into the overall mission. And those on team y will need to be clear on how the new schedule fits into the overall mission. And both teams we'll need reassurance that this change is for a good reason. >> All right, I can see how that response works. Let's try it for this question.
Play video starting at :3:53 and follow transcript3:53
What would you do if you are unable to build a successful working relationship with a colleague at the office?
Play video starting at :3:59 and follow transcript3:59
>> How about this time I go ahead and give my full response and then let's break it down together. Would that work? >> Sure, that works for me. >> Okay, let's try this.
Play video starting at :4:10 and follow transcript4:10
That's a great question, I have a real life example that I can give. One time, a colleague of mine, Steve, he and I, we were having a tough time getting along. And, I think he was upset about a recent promotion I got, but I wasn't sure. However, it was affecting our working relationship and there were concerns from management about productivity. I knew I had to do something.
Play video starting at :4:32 and follow transcript4:32
About a week after I got the promotion I notice that Steve's attitude toward me had changed and that's when I knew I had to talk with him about it. I invited him out to coffee, away from the work place. And we had a great conversation. He felt he'd been slighted by management. But we were able to work out what had happened. Asking Steve directly, about what was bothering him, proved to be a great conflict resolution tactic. I figured my promotion was bothering him, and we needed to talk about it. Everything worked out in the end, because he was promoted as well, and I was able to help him prepare for that interview. >> Well, this story sounds familiar. >> Exactly! It's the story I could have used for how I handle conflict. When you prepare for a behavioral or situational interview, you're going to put together six, maybe eight stories and then think how you can use them. >> That's great. Okay for the first W, the who, I'm guessing that's you and Steve? >> Yep you got it. And what about for the second W, the what? >> That would be the conflict you were experiencing. Steve's attitude towards you. >> That's it. >> Well what about the third W, the when? >> This comes from the time frame I mentioned.
Play video starting at :5:39 and follow transcript5:39
>> When you said a week after the promotion? >> Yeah, that's right. It's good to give a specific time frame to establish when exactly these events are taking place. >> And how about the fourth W, where? >> There's a couple of wheres in this one. I talked about the office, the coffee shop, and even the post-conflict setting. These are all good details to include but if you're looking at chronological order then away from the office is the where in this case. >> That's good to know. >> And the last W, the why, what do you think?
Play video starting at :6:14 and follow transcript6:14
>> This is when you say that you knew something was bothering him and you needed to talk about it. >> Right. Basically the why is what drives you to action. Why did you take these steps? In this case, I knew I needed to resolve a conflict and these were the steps I took. The 5 W strategy helps me tell that story. >> That's great, John. Thanks for sharing that with us. >> You got it.

 From my resume, you can see that I have good experience in project management. However, that experience is mostly in business administration and financial services. So, one area where I'm not as strong as I could be is in my understanding of the healthcare industry. However, I don't really see this as a major issue, because of my educational background and personal interest in healthcare. My understanding of the position is that I will primarily focus on the project management and financial services side of things. And for those aspects, I have the background that can help me contribute to United Health's mission.
Play video starting at :4:31 and follow transcript4:31
Now that said, I do realize that a better understanding of the healthcare industry would be beneficial, especially to meet the needs of United Health. So, I'm currently taking a workshop for project management in healthcare. And I'm also going to the Health IT Conference later this year. I hope that both of these will give me a general sense of what's to be expected in this sector in the future.
